Good morning.
I'm Michael Brouwere,
engineer in the Data Security Group.
I'm going to talk to you about
Smart Cards in Mac OS X today and what
the state of Smart Card support is.
So first I'd like to cover what
this session is going to be about.
We're going to cover the
use of Smart Cards in OS X.
As of Tiger,
we actually have native support
for a number of different cards,
and we're going to show you
where we've gotten since the
last time we presented to you.
I'm going to talk about what you can
do if any of you here are -- how many
of you here are application developers?
So, I'm going to tell you what you need
to do if your application does any
security work to have Smart Card support
enabled in your applications.
And then, how many of you here are
developers of Smart Card solutions
or Smart Card vendors?
Alright,
so the majority of the presentation
is going to go talking about
how to add support for new
types of cards to Mac OS X.
For which, if you application
developers do the work right,
the people writing the support for
Smart Cards will have their cards
just work with any application.
So, first I'd like to show you the
progress we've made since last year,
and to do that,
I'd like to start off with a demo,
and I'm going to bring
John Hurley up on stage for that.
[Transcript missing]
So one of the things that is different
on Tiger is as you plug in the reader,
PCS CD, which operates PCS C,
will notice that, or
[Transcript missing]
First, I think what I'll do is insert
the... This is a Department of
Defense common access card.
So insert that card.
And I'm going to go to Keychain Access.
And you'll see that it just
shows up like a keychain.
So the really interesting thing
about this from the application
developer's point of view,
what we've been telling developers
for actually several years now at
WWDC is unless you actually are
writing drivers for a reader or you
have to support a new type of card,
you don't even have to
worry about Smart Cards.
So what you should do is write
to the high-level security APIs,
as Michael will talk about,
and then everything
else should just work.
So here, this is just showing up just
like a regular keychain.
I have a couple of certificates in there.
It's all what you'd expect to see.
Okay, now I'm going to remove that one.
This is another card that's very
similar to the DoD Common Access Card,
the Department of Homeland Security card
that they're going to be issuing soon.
I'm going to launch
Keychain Access again.
Now you'll see that card show up.
It takes a little bit of time.
What it's doing now is actually
reading the certificates,
but the way things are written,
after those certificates are read once,
if they're not part of
the PIN-protected data,
those things are cached.
So you'll notice actually quite a
good performance improvement over
what we had in previous releases.
So here,
these are standard certificate dialogues.
You can see some of the
things that are on the card.
Now, okay, keychain access by itself is
not particularly interesting.
What are some of the other
things that we've done
We said that we would
integrate it into the system,
and we've done it.
So here is Internet Connect application,
right?
This is what you'd use
to hook up through VPN.
And if I...
Just create a configuration and
click on 'Other'. You'll see that
here it's giving me a choice of
certificates to choose to use with VPN.
So here would be a certificate.
I'm not connected to the network here,
so I'm not going to actually
show how this part works.
But the main point is,
the people that wrote the
Internet Connect application
didn't have to do anything
special with Smart Cards either.
They just wrote to the
high-level security APIs.
Okay,
so we're going to cancel out of that.
Now, let's go to another application.
Before I show you
what's going on in Mail,
another application that I'm not
going to demonstrate but there's
built-in support for is Safari.
It's worth pointing out that if you
need your Smart Card to work with
client-side authentication in Safari,
the method that Michael is
going to describe is the only
way that we support to do it.
So there's no other way.
You just have to act like you're
a keychain and then it'll work
automatically with Safari.
Okay, so here in Mail,
let me just compose a message.
And what you'll notice is,
over on this side of the screen,
there's two icons.
There's a little lock icon,
which is grayed out,
and there's this kind of checkmark icon.
That means that I can
digitally sign the message.
Those icons are just there because
it's seen that I have a Smart Card and
it realizes that I have a credential
on there that I can use to sign with.
So it's very, very low key,
but it's very tightly
integrated into the system.
and I think at this point,
Michael's going to come back up and then
I have another demo in a minute or two,
right?
Thank you, John.
So, as you've seen,
what we have since Mac OS 10.3,
we've done a number of things.
We support Smart Card login,
but not just login.
Actually, if you configure a system
that allows Smart Card login,
you can also use Smart Cards
for authorization dialogues and
for unlocking the screen if you
have the screen locker enabled.
So, anything that normally requires a
password and uses the authorization
APIs will work with Smart Cards in OS X.
In Tiger, sorry.
Email, you can do signing,
John demoed that, although he didn't
actually send the mail.
That does work.
You can do encryption,
or actually rather decryption,
using the Smart Card.
So if someone sends you an
encrypted message using one of
the certificates that have an
associated key on your Smart Card,
Mail will, if the Smart Card is inserted,
Mail will find that key and know how to
decrypt the message and ask you for your
PIN and it will decrypt the message.
So, SSL client-side auth works in Safari.
The VPN example you showed
is actually similar,
although it's not identical.
802.1X is another thing.
There's an option in
Internet Connect to use 802.1X.
Also supports certificate-based
authentication methods.
Also works with Smart Cards.
What's interesting is that actually
Apart from login,
none of these other applications
actually had any Smart Card related
changes during Tiger.
And so the question is,
what do you as app developers need to do
to get Smart Card support in your app?
Well, hopefully the answer is nothing.
If you have listened to us for the past,
I don't know, five years,
if you're using CDSA or
you're using the sec.
Keychain APIs or higher level APIs,
then your application should
just work with Smart Cards.
And to show you an example of that,
I'd like to bring John back up on stage.
And he's going to show you how to add
Smart Card support to an existing app.
Michael, so he's slightly misstated it.
It's not really adding
it to an existing app.
The demo that I'm going to do now is,
I think it was really a great success for
what we had done in terms of Smart Cards.
So as we've mentioned,
we've been talking about, you know,
just use the very high level
APIs and stuff should just work.
And one of the companies
that was interested in having
Smart Cards work was Microsoft,
the Mac business.
And they really wanted to be able to sign
emails using Smart Cards in Entourage.
And they, it's not an official feature,
partly because there's not really big
deployments of Smart Cards out there yet.
But when we were talking
to them about that,
we said, well, okay,
we don't actually have any
Smart Card support that
you can use in Entourage.
But if you write to these companies,
you can use Smart Cards.
So you do things like
SecFind Certificate,
SecFind Identity,
use those high level things.
Then when the Smart Card stuff comes out,
hopefully it'll all work.
So they released
Office 2004 in June of 2004.
And in September or October,
we had a Smart Card kitchen
and they sent somebody with one
of their internal Smart Cards.
And they spent a day
writing their token D.
And hooked it up and they said, hey,
you're right, it does, it just works.
So let me show you what support
they have for that in Entourage.
What's particularly
interesting about this,
you'll notice that there's
no Smart Card specific
terminology in here at all.
So in preferences, account creation,
we'll find it there.
Okay, so in account settings,
There's a tab called 'Security' and
you can choose a certificate there.
And they didn't change any code.
They just said, "Okay,
let's do a find certificate." It's
seeing this card in the reader,
and it says, "Okay,
you can use that certificate
to sign things with."
[Transcript missing]
Under the message menu,
they have a security thing
and we can digitally sign it.
So I'm not connected,
but I can send it and
you'll see it show up.
Well,
I'm not sure why that's not sending,
but fortunately I'd sent one
before when I was trying this out.
So here's, this is one that I sent before
with the same card and it's just
in my outbox and it says that this
message has been digitally signed.
And if I view the details,
it shows all the details
about this message.
And I can view the sender's certificate.
[Transcript missing]
The existing Mac OS X entourage,
an existing Mac OS X application,
and it was written well before we
actually had Smart Card support,
and it just works with Smart Cards.
And Microsoft actually didn't have to
make any changes at all to entourage.
This is just the version
that shipped in June of 2004.
John talked a little bit earlier about
Microsoft having to write a 'tokend',
which is to support a new kind of card,
which I'll talk about in a little bit.
So, like I said,
how do you get this level
of integration in your apps?
How do you get support for Smart Cards?
If you use CDSA or the
CDSA-based APIs in Mac OS X,
you'll get Smart Card support.
The best thing to do if
you're looking for a key is
to use SecKeyRef and Friends.
Friends being SecCertificateRef,
as John already mentioned.
And there's a class called SecIdentity.
SecIdentities are actually
pairs of keys and certificates.
So if you just search the system for
all available identities that can sign,
for example,
it'll come up with identities
both in user keychains and
identities on Smart Cards.
[Transcript missing]
So how do you implement
Smart Card support for
new Smart Cards in Tiger?
We thought about this and we
thought about what we wanted and
how we got to Smart Card support.
And we made a number of
choices when we designed this.
And those choices were based on some
of these goals that I'm listing here.
First,
and I think the most important goal was,
we wanted zero user configuration.
That means that the end user shouldn't
have to install any drivers or
configuration thingies or whatever.
Someone who gets a laptop
and has a Smart Card,
it should just work.
And that is the state of Tiger today.
If you're someone who has one of
the supported Smart Cards in Tiger,
which today are the CAC cards,
which the DoD uses,
the Belgian Identity Cards,
which John showed,
and we also have support
for Japanese National Cards,
and the National ID Card,
which is being rolled out soon.
If you have one of those cards and
you plug it into a Tiger machine,
Mail and all these other
apps that John demoed,
and any apps that
correctly use the Sec APIs,
will just work with that Smart Card.
The user doesn't have
to configure anything.
The only exception is login.
You have to configure allowing
a particular account to
login with a Smart Card.
Another goal was to work with
existing Mac OS X applications.
For everyone here that's
actually followed our advice
and used the Sec APIs,
we wanted to make sure that those
applications could leverage the
Smart Card support we put into Tiger.
What we explicitly didn't want is
for each application to be aware of
Smart Cards and have to do specific
things to support specific Smart Cards.
And last, and this is something we
didn't really show you,
but that's actually
something we've achieved,
is Single Sign-On.
The Smart Card solution in Tiger,
if you use a card to log in
and you use that same card for
sending mail and you use that same
card for connecting to the VPN,
you don't have to enter your PIN in
every app that uses the card.
You can enter your PIN once
and you can use that card
in all these different apps.
We examined some of
the different options.
Given that we're using CDSA,
and CDSA is supposed to be this
pluggable security architecture,
the first and most
obvious choice to us was,
well, we'll just write a CSPDL,
which is a cryptographic service
provider and a data store library,
for each card and load
that into each app.
So that way,
each app that wants to talk to a
particular Smart Card loads this
plug-in and can talk to the card.
And obviously,
we could abstract that using the higher
level APIs to automatically do this.
That meets two out of the three goals.
What it doesn't meet is
the single sign-on goal.
It also means that applications
using the lower level CDSA have
to be aware of these new CSPDLs,
but the biggest problem was the
absence of having single sign-on and
not having the ability to do that.
There's another problem with that,
and that's how would you
integrate the UI for getting
a pin if this application was,
let's say, a faceless application,
like a background process trying
to sign a message for you.
That's another thing in our
current architecture we solve.
Another option,
which I'm sure anyone here doing
Smart Cards is familiar with,
is PXS 11.
We write a PXS 11 driver for
each card type and use that.
Again,
the application would load that PXS 11
driver and talk to the card to do that.
It has the same problem as a CSPDL,
but in addition,
it doesn't mesh with our existing APIs.
The APIs we've been telling
you as developers to use for
all these years have been CDSA.
PXS 11 is similar in
functionality to a CSPDL,
but with a slightly different API.
Given that we never
had Smart Card support,
we'd be introducing a completely
new API for application developers
to deal with Smart Cards.
Meaning, an application that worked fine
with encryption and Mail would
have to rev to support Smart Cards.
It's actually something
we wanted to avoid.
Our solution was to use a PXS 11
driver for all of our applications.
Horizontal Smart Card support.
We wanted a solution that
works across the entire system,
not just a vertical app like, let's say,
you ship your app that supports
just one particular card and it
works through the PCSC stack.
That's pretty much the solutions
we've seen on Windows today.
All are fairly vertical solutions.
They'll support a card in a
particular app through the stack.
We wanted it to work with login,
authorization, mail, Safari,
screen locking,
anything using authorization,
any apps that correctly
use the SEC and CDSA APIs.
We wanted single sign-on,
and more importantly,
because single sign-on without
ACL support would be somewhat insecure.
So we wanted ACL support,
which is the access control list
that CDSA and keychains use.
How many of you are familiar
with the keychain APIs here?
Not a lot?
Well, I'll go into a little more detail
about ACLs later on in the session.
So, like I said previously,
all we had was vertical solutions.
There were maybe two or three
vendors out there that actually
provided a vertical solution,
but everyone had to do their own
integration with Login Window and
their own integration with Mail and
their own integration with Safari,
which I don't think anyone out here had
a product that worked across the board.
So we wanted to enable that.
So, how did you do this?
Well, so rather than actually having
a plug-in for... Interesting.
I don't get a mouse.
Rather than having a plug-in
for each application,
we have a single generic
plug-in called the SD-CSPDL,
whichever application loads,
and that's the SecurityD CSPDL.
What that does is, to the application,
it looks like a regular CDSA plug-in,
but what it does in reality is it
talks to SecurityD and forwards
all the API calls you make into
that to SecurityD using Mach RPCs.
SecurityD then will load
one or more tokenDs.
Each tokenD represents a card or a token.
So when someone inserts
a token into the system,
a tokenD is loaded to
support that particular card.
[Transcript missing]
So, each tokend in turn that uses
PCSC to talk to the actual reader
and then for each reader inserted
there will be a reader driver,
which is the part on the right.
So, I mentioned 'tokend'. Now,
what is 'tokend'? Well, like I said,
it's loaded for each card that
is inserted in the system.
There's a process that knows
how to talk to that card.
It's actually entirely up to you
as a developer that were to develop
a 'tokend' how it does that.
I mean, typically,
it would be using PCSC,
but we've had some developers that
had solutions that actually use
different communication channels.
and
So, tokend implements an interface
that security invokes.
It's like a callback interface.
That callback interface is
basically driven by security.
When a client makes a call to security,
security will ask tokend to
perform a particular operation.
Tokend never initiates
anything on its own.
For events like token
insertion and token removal,
SecurityD actually talks
directly to PCSCD to listen
for those types of events.
So SecurityD knows when the token that a
particular tokenD represents is removed,
and then SecurityD will
just tell TokenD to go away.
The interface to 'tokend'
is actually part of Darwin,
and one of the reasons for that
is that we want your feedback
into making it better and making
it perfect before we make this a
fully committed and supported API.
[Transcript missing]
As I mentioned before,
there's a single 'tokend'
for each token in the system.
So if you insert four cards
into four different readers,
you'll end up with four
running 'tokend' processes.
Unlike, let's say,
a PKSS 11 library that has to
be able to deal with multiple
cards and multiple tokens,
SecurityD deals with all the multiplexing
of tokens to cards to people,
etc.
'tokend' has a really simple job.
It's just, you know,
talk to this one card and deal with it.
From the higher-level
API's point of view,
each token looks like a keychain.
So a normal app talking to
the Sec keychain APIs or above
will actually just see a new
keychain that got inserted.
Those keychains actually show
up in a search list that is
called the dynamic search list.
There's a number of different
keychain search lists.
The most obvious one that you'd
see if you launch Keychain
Access is the user search list,
which typically contains your
login keychain by default.
If you create additional keychains,
those get added to the user search list.
The dynamic search list automatically
gets appended to the user search
list with any dynamic keychains
that are present at that time.
The keychains that are inserted
into the system get appended
to each user search list.
That doesn't mean the user has
access to the items on them,
because to do that they'd
need to know the PIN.
So even in the context
of fast user switching,
unless you know the PIN to the token,
you still can't access it.
They're, like I said,
they're searched after the user's list.
So first all the user-configured
keychains are searched and then
any additional tokens are searched.
So because of how that works
and because of normally when
people make keychain API calls,
you just specify the default search list,
which is null,
you'll automatically end up searching
any cards that get inserted.
So, if any of you have applications
using the Keychain APIs and you're
specifically searching one Keychain,
you'll have to change your
application to actually do less,
which is just not care
about which Keychain you're
searching and search them all,
which is actually the
recommended behavior.
And doing that,
you'll actually find things on
Smart Cards as well as any user
Keychains that the user has configured.
So, now I'm going to talk about how
you could write your own tokend.
This is mostly for those of
you who are looking to support
a new type of card or token,
but it could be interesting for
the rest of you here as well,
just to understand how some
of the guts of this work.
So like I said,
the interface is a C callback interface.
It's actually in a header
called 'sec_tokend.h' in the
Security Token D framework.
So to find the C callback interface,
you'd have to go to the
Security Token D project in
Darwin and look for that header.
There's a C++ layer on top of
that C interface that we use
to implement our own tokenDs.
And if you're comfortable with using C++,
I definitely recommend you use that
because it helps implement a lot
of the features that your tokenD
needs to support to be a keychain.
The C interface is more
like a CSPDL interface,
which is fairly low level.
In order for a CSPDL to
be able to be a keychain,
it needs to support a number
of different features,
which are
[Transcript missing]
and there are source code there
both for the CAC tokend and for
the Belgian Identity Card tokend.
So you have two examples
of actual working tokends.
There's a third tokend in there
which there's sources for,
but we don't ship,
which is a Muscle Card based tokend,
which actually would support any
card supported by the Muscle APIs.
So, what does 'tokend' itself look like?
Well, on the one hand,
it talks to SecurityD,
which is not something
you have to code for,
because the SecurityTokenD framework
is basically what you
link against as a TokenD.
And that framework provides basically the
RPC layer between TokenD and SecurityD.
On the other hand, on the bottom end,
you're most likely to link
against PCSC framework,
because that's what you
need to talk to PCSC,
which is the part that lets you
talk to different readers without
having to worry about which reader
your card was inserted into.
and between those two
is your custom code,
which actually implements 'tokend'.
Now if you're using the C++ framework,
this picture isn't entirely
accurate because the C++ layer
is on top of the interface to
security as well as on top of PCLC,
because there's some abstractions
there too that make you deal
with the PCLC part easier.
and in this case your code
becomes most likely a lot smaller.
How do you write a 'tokend'
? What do you start with?
Well, every program starts with
'main'. And 'main' in 'tokend'
looks something like this.
Actually,
it probably looks exactly like this,
unless you want to add
some comments or whatnot.
You call a single function in 'main',
which is 'sec token d main', and you
pass in your own 'argc' and 'argv' to it,
and it takes two parameters.
One is an input parameter,
the other is an output parameter.
Callbacks is the input parameter.
It contains basically,
it's a struct containing all the callback
functions that you need to implement that
SecurityD will invoke on your tokenD.
Some of them are optional,
so you can fill in null and
they'll just do the default thing.
But most of them are actually required.
And then there's a tokenD
support struct that gets filled
in when you make this call,
which gets filled in immediately
before your first callback is invoked.
So you can assume that once you're
in one of your callbacks that that
tokenD support structure is populated.
The most important thing in the support
structure is there's a function there
to get the PCSC slot number for which
you are responsible as a tokenD.
Because again, there could be multiple
readers in the system,
and when the tokenD gets launched,
it's launched to serve a
card in a particular reader.
And so which reader that is,
you can get by calling this
function in the support structure.
There's a number of other
functions in the support structure,
like allocators that you're supposed to
use when you return memory to the system.
So you don't just use malloc and free.
There's actually a malloc
for data and a free for data.
And there's a special secure
malloc and secure free,
which you're supposed to use for keys.
So, there's a number of callbacks listed,
and I'm going to walk through
the most important ones.
There's one called
'initialize', which is called,
but none of our tokenies actually use it.
'Initialize' is called after that
support structure is filled in,
but before probe,
and it's basically a chance
for you to do any additional
initialization you might want to do.
However, just because your token has been
launched and you've been told
to service a particular slot,
doesn't mean you're going to be the
token to ultimately talk to that card,
because there might be multiple
tokenies on the system,
and there's a scoring system in place,
which basically,
each token is asked whether or not
they want to support that card,
and if they do, what score they give to
their level of support.
So for example,
if there's a generic muscle token
D on the system that supports a
particular card through muscle,
it would probably give a lower score
than a token D that was written
specifically for that one type of card.
The main job of Probe is to
figure out whether you are
able to support this card.
One thing to note is,
before Probe is called,
and actually after Probe is called,
you are not allowed to
talk to PCSC on that slot.
You're only allowed to
do this during Probe,
up until the next call,
which I'll go into next.
Besides figuring out whether
you support the card,
Probe has one other job,
and that's to provide a
unique ID for a token.
That's an optional step,
but it's required if you
want to leverage the type of
caching that John talked about,
which is...
In a lot of cases,
cards allow users to freely
read certificates off the card,
and in most cases,
certificates are immutable.
So if your token is a pre-populated card,
like most of the cards
that we support today are,
then it's kind of pointless to
read the certificate off the
card over and over again every
time the user inserts the card.
Because the certificate is
small by today's standards,
it's only a few K usually,
but to read it from a card
actually takes a couple of seconds.
So if you can make up a
unique ID for the token that
uniquely identifies your token,
then later on you'll be
given a cache directory,
which will be the same between
insertions of that token,
to which you can freely store things.
Once the system finishes
probing all available tokenDs,
one of them is selected, or none.
If none of them return a
score higher than zero,
then the card isn't supported.
If one or more of them return
a score higher than zero,
then the one with the
highest score is selected.
All the other tokenDs are killed.
The one with the highest score
gets an established call.
After you return from probe and
up until established is called,
you're not allowed to talk to the
card anymore because the other tokenDs
are at this point scanning the card.
So you don't own the card
until established is called.
Once established is called,
you are now in full control of the card.
SecurityD won't bug you anymore.
The system, you own that resource.
Establish has a number of parameters.
The most important one being the,
well not the most important one,
but the cache directory being one of
the ones that I talked about earlier,
which is if you make a
unique ID for the token,
and actually even if you don't,
the cache directory is a directory in
which you can store things that you want,
that you read off the token
that you don't want to have
to read over and over again.
If you didn't make up a unique
ID for the token in probe,
then your cache directory will
be empty and different every
time the token is inserted.
If you did somehow manage
to come up with a unique ID,
which in most cases you do by reading,
let's say, the chip ID off the card or
the serial number or something.
Most tokens that we've worked with
have some kind of unique ID on them.
If you manage to read that off the card,
then that cache directory will
be the same between insertions.
There's another parameter,
which is the print name,
which is an output parameter.
And the print name is what you
get to fill in as the human
readable name of the card.
If you leave the print name unpopulated,
your card will be named by the system,
and it will be named
Smart Card number something,
like you saw with most of
the cards we demoed today.
Then the other output
parameter is the MDS directory.
That one is fairly important in that
MDS is the,
not to be confused with Spotlight,
which also has used the
name MDS internally.
MDS is the Module Directory Services.
It's a part of CDSA,
which allows modules to
identify their capabilities.
Well, during establish,
it's your responsibility as tokend
to actually build up a list of
MDS capabilities for your token.
And you'll have to build a capability
list both for the datastore library part,
for the DL part of your token,
and for the CSP part of your token.
So the DL part would look something like,
you know, supports queries with AND and
OR conjunctives and with equal and
less than and greater than operators,
etc.
So you'd list all the capabilities
of your tokend in MDS.
That directory is a directory
containing the files,
which
If you don't fill that in,
the MDS info files will be pulled
out of the resources folder of your
tokenD by securityD automatically.
So if your tokenD only
supports one kind of token,
and that token always has
the same capabilities,
then you just hard code
these MDS info files,
stick them in the resources
folder of your tokenD,
and the system will pick
them up automatically.
If for some reason you support lots
of different tokens in your tokend,
and those tokens have
varying capabilities,
then this is the point where
you have to go query the token,
figure out what the
token's capabilities are,
and produce that MDS record.
Now, if you're smart and you actually
have a unique ID for that token,
you can probably cache that information.
So,
if for some reason you want info files
that aren't in the resources folder,
that's when you fill
in the MDS directory.
Other than that,
you get passed in the GUID of the CSP,
which is actually used when you
return key objects to the caller.
You're supposed to fill in the
GUID of the key using this GUID.
And then the subservice ID,
which is essentially the
virtual slot number that your
token represents in the system.
So, once establish has happened,
your token's ready to go and
the system will most likely
start querying your token,
etc., etc.
The way to get things off,
everything on a token
is some form of object.
The different types of objects that we
support or that are expected to be on
a token would be X.509 certificates,
different types of keys-- public keys,
private keys, symmetric keys.
You could have generic objects on there,
which generic objects won't be
used by the security stack per se.
But you can use CDSA to find those
generic objects on your token.
And as an example,
those common access cards that
John demoed actually have a
personnel record object on there.
There's a specific app we
ship called the CAC Viewer,
I think, Common Access Card Viewer,
that reads those generic records and
can display things like your salary
scale and your medical benefits and
all this other information that's
stored on the card but doesn't fall
into one of these other categories.
Similarly, the Belgian Identity Card has
Social Security-type information,
has a picture of the
person who owns the card,
et cetera.
Those can all be basically served
up to the system as generic records.
Because there's so much
variation in what they are,
there's no real standardized app
at the app level that knows how to
deal with those generic records.
But if you provide a custom app
to view records for that card,
you can go through the normal security
APIs to get those records off your card.
You don't have to directly
talk to the card in your app.
and you can have custom types.
Usually if you're thinking
about doing a custom type,
you probably should just use generic.
One thing where I could think would
maybe be an exception would be,
let's say,
your card supports PGP certificates.
You would want to use a PGP certificate
type there and not just generic.
Or if you support some other totally
different type of object that wouldn't
fall into one of these categories.
Pins are actually not
objects on our cards.
I'll talk a little bit
more about that later.
We've already had some comments
from developers about this,
and we're more than willing to take
additional comments about this later.
So, now we're actually going to go
into some of the other callbacks,
and those are the ones to
retrieve attributes and data
off objects on the card.
And there are really only three ways to
get attributes and data off the card,
and that's either Find First, Find Next,
or Find Record Handle.
Attributes and data are returned using
the allocators in the support call box.
Certificates and keys have to
have very specific attributes
associated with them in order for
the rest of the security stack to
recognize them as keychain items.
So that the schema for a certificate
and the schema for a key item
have to have particular attributes
that must be there for it to work.
And there's also,
in the case of a public key and a cert,
or a private key and a cert,
more importantly,
a certificate has an attribute
called the hash of the public key.
And a private key also has an attribute
Those two have to match in order
for the system to recognize that
key is associated with that cert.
or for that matter,
to associate a private
key with a public key,
because they're two separate objects.
By having the same hash,
they're paired up as a single key pair.
and Michael Broewer, John Hurley.
All of that is a lot of work,
and that's actually where the
C++ layer helps you a lot.
Another type of objects that I didn't
talk about yet in the previous section,
which the system will
also make these calls on,
are schema objects.
Each object type in a Smart Card has
to have a schema describing
which attributes it supports.
So all the schema information
needs to be queryable using the
same APIs as the regular data.
Again, the C++ layer actually handles
all the schema tables for you.
So, first one, find first.
Starts a new query,
think about it like creating a
database cursor or query or whatever.
Unlike PCSS 11,
there's no limit on how many outstanding
queries you can have at one time,
and the system will
sometimes do nested queries.
So you need to make sure that
you support that in your tokend.
[Transcript missing]
and Michael Dinklage will show
you how to use the C++ layer.
The C++ layer actually handles the
entire query machinery for you.
It supports all the optional features,
etc.
So the other argument
is the search handle,
which is output from this function,
and then there's the data itself,
which is shown in this structure,
which the data contains the attributes,
the data,
and the record handle and
key handle for the record.
Normal records only have a record handle.
Keys are special in that they
actually return two handles.
If you search a token and
you find a key object,
you'll get back both the key
handle and the record handle.
and the Key Handle is what you
use for cryptographic operations.
The Record Handle is what you'd
use to retrieve additional
attributes and data from the object.
Find Next finds the next object
in a query that you've started.
Find Record Handle isn't really
'find', it's kind of misnamed,
but what it is is it retrieves additional
attributes or data from an object for
which you already have the handle.
Which really the only way to get
the handle is either by doing
a 'find first' or 'find next'.
So, like I said before,
I was going to talk a bit
about access control lists.
Tokens have to support a number
of access control list calls,
and access control lists are
actually how we've implemented pins.
There's get-owner, get-ackle,
change-owner, and change-ackle calls,
where the star in between
is either a database,
an object, or a key.
This is where we differ from the
regular CSPDL spec in that in CSPDL,
objects don't have ackles.
For tokens, they do,
because it turns out a lot of Smart Cards
actually have pins protecting generic
type objects and not just keys.
An ACL consists of a number of entries.
Each entry in an ACL consists
of the following three pieces.
It consists of a tag,
which is really just a
string describing the ACL,
or label.
It has one or more authorizations,
which are the operations that
that ACL entry authorizes.
Which could be, you know, allows read,
allows write, allows encrypt, sign,
whatever.
And it has a subject.
The subject is actually a
linked list that can get fairly,
fairly complicated.
Some examples of subjects
would be a protected password
or a threshold subject,
which is a K of N.
It could be an and or an or.
or a PreAuth subject.
I'll talk a little bit about
some other subjects later.
Some subjects can recurse and
contain additional subjects.
For example, a threshold subject,
you could say,
here's an ACL that has a 1 of 2,
which essentially contains
two other subjects,
one of which has to evaluate to
true in order to satisfy that ACL.
Subjects can also contain
one or more values.
There are public and private values.
Private values can't be
retrieved using the get calls,
they can only be set using a change call.
So an example of a private
value would be a pin,
where you can set the pin
using a change ACL call,
and when you get the ACL,
you get back the fact
that it's a pin ACL,
but you don't get back what
the value of the pin is,
because that would be silly.
So, like I said before,
these are the entities that have ACLs.
The database itself has an ACL.
Each token represents a single database.
The database is the card.
Each key has an ACL and
objects can also have ACLs,
which is unique to tokenD because
CDSA doesn't otherwise have that.
Pin ACLs,
and this is how we've implemented pins.
Typically, the entity that represents
a pin will be an ACL entry,
usually on the database,
that has subject type, ACL subject type,
preauth, source.
Other ACLs, like the object, let's say,
so the database would have a preauth
source type ACL with the tag pin 1,
giving it the name pin 1.
Other ACLs, like an ACL on a key,
might require,
in order to sign with this key,
you need to use that ACL over there.
And it can refer to that ACL by
using ACL subject type preauth with
the same tag as the source ACL.
I mentioned pin 1, because in order for
an ACL to be a pin ACL,
the tag has to start with the letters
PIN in caps and be followed by a number.
If your card has a notion of
a user pin or a default pin,
you'd want to call that pin 1.
Because pins aren't first class objects,
there are some issues,
which is pins can't refer to each
other and they're not special.
There's no such thing
as a supervisor pin,
and we currently don't have a way
to express that the supervisor
pin unblocks some other pin.
Pins can just allow or
disallow certain operations,
and what those operations are,
are actually listed in CDSA.
Some tips if you're writing a 'tokend':
Before each operation that
uses an object from the token,
the read authorization is
checked on the database ACL.
So if you want anyone to read
anything from your token at all,
then you have to allow read,
otherwise you won't be able to
get any objects off the token.
If there are any objects on the token
that don't require authorization,
then the read ACL on the database
should be subject type any,
which means anyone can read.
You can then subsequently,
the ACL on the item itself is checked,
so if you want to limit access
to particular objects and
not allow them to be read,
you can set an ACL on the object itself.
The read ACL on the database
actually applies to both the
attributes and the data of an object,
whereas the read ACL on an
object only applies to its data.
If you can read the database,
you can read all objects' attributes.
and Michael Broewer, John Hurley.
So,
make sure that you make keys readable.
That's a common mistake is to think,
"Well,
I don't want my keys to be readable.
I don't want people to
read my keys." Well,
readable doesn't apply extractable.
Readable means you can read
the key at the database level,
which actually returns,
when you read a key,
you get back a CSSM key structure
that tells you what the key is.
But it's a reference to the key,
not the actual key bits themselves,
which you obviously can't read.
Finally, wrap up: ACLs.
TokenD is responsible
for enforcing the ACLs.
The system makes assumptions,
SecurityD makes assumptions about
the ACLs and will pre-flight the
UI for you to get all the pins
needed to satisfy what you claim
in your ACL structure you need.
But it's still ultimately the
responsibility of TokenD to
enforce the ACL rules.
Michael Brouwere, John Hurley
So then I got the last part,
Crypto Operations.
There's three major
operations you can do on keys.
There's a couple more,
but I'm not going to go into them.
There's Decrypt, Generate Signature,
Unwrap Key.
They're very similar
to the CSP operations,
the same name.
So if you look at the
CDSA documentation for these calls,
that pretty much applies.
RAPKEY and ENKRYPT are also there,
but you don't normally have to
implement them on a token because
they're only meant for public keys.
And the way the system is set up,
it'll use the built-in
CSP for public key operations.
It'll extract the public key from the
token and then just use the built-in CSP,
which is faster.
If you support symmetric keys,
then you will have to implement those,
most likely.
DeCrypt gets a key handle,
which is a handle that was obtained
through one of those find calls,
which is not the object
handle but the key handle.
The context contains all the additional
information like what mode to use,
padding, algorithm type, etc.
The rest is
and Michael Broewer, John Hurley.
Generate signature,
very similar to decrypt.
Of course, you're not doing any
Unwrap key is needed if you want
to support SMIME decryption.
A lot of tokens that we've
supported only support signing.
If you need decryption,
you're going to have
to support unwrap key.
And in particular,
you'll need to support unwrapping
a symmetric key with a private key,
according to the way the
SMIME standard specifies it.
and Michael Broewer, John Hurley.
These three operations will make
all the applications we just
showed you work with your token.
Summary What tokend does is it allows
shared access to a Smart Card or token.
It's fairly simple to implement,
especially with the C++ layer.
You can get a token up and
running in probably a day or two,
because you really only need
to implement about five or six
commands to talk to your card.
It's not PKS 11.
It's possible to implement
a tokend on top of PICSS11,
except for probe, which is not something
PICSS11 normally supports.
We don't have any tokend's that
we've written on top of PICSS11,
because it turns out that the
complexity of PICSS11 just makes
it more work to write a tokend than
just implementing these four or
five calls you have to implement.
Which is all you have to do
when you're using the C++ layer.
So in most cases,
it's a lot less work to write
a 'tokend' than it is to
write a 'Pecosys 11' library.
I didn't talk about the
SPIs to modify a token,
to generate a key or insert a new record,
etc.
Those callbacks are there
and you can look those up,
but we don't currently have tokenies
that we ship that support that,
although it should work.
So, last thing,
existing Smart Card solutions, well,
existing vertical apps
should continue to work.
Last year,
if any of you were at my presentation,
we presented what we thought the
Smart Card architecture was going to be.
Well,
everything we said last year was true,
except the part where we said that
your vertical apps wouldn't work.
It turns out they will.
So, all the other things we
promised actually happened,
and we managed to do it in such
a way that your existing apps
should still work and be able to
coexist with the tokend system.
And the reason is we don't take
exclusive access to the card,
but we use transactions.
So, as long as tokend doesn't--isn't
in the middle of a transaction,
you should be able to access the card.
And with that,
I'd like to bring up the Q&A panel.
and I'm sure you've
seen this slide before.
There's one other
session related to this,
which is the Security Feedback Forum,
and we'd really appreciate to hear
your feedback if we run out of time
today in the Q&A on token-D issues,
etc.